Midterm Exam
The Midterm Exam is Tuesday, March 14. It will include the material in Chapters 1 - 8 of the HFSD (Head First Software Development) book:

Big Bang approach to development - description, the path it takes, and disadvantages

Big bang approachto developement utilizes the ideology of gathering all requirements, doing code, and testing
all into one single process. This gives the programmers more flexibility in their design but less
reliability for correctness with the customer because the developer does not check with the customer
until the entire process is finished. This gives a 50-50 chance of whither the client will approve
of the finished product or not.


Iterative approach to development - description, the path it takes, and advantages

An iterative approach to development utilizes x-amount of day blocks of testing, coding and requirements.
After each "x-day iteration", the developers check in with the client to ensure the project is fullfilling
the clients expectations. Iterations utilize user stories which include: Title, description, estimate and priority.
The devlopers organize user stories based on estimate and priority as well as adjust their work days-per-iteration
using a velocity coefficient. The problem with iterative approach is that there is little felxibility in adding
new features and stories. Adjusting an iteration when new stories arrive can be cumbersome but doable. The advantages
is the stability of the project. This means that the project will constantly be corrected by the developers by consulting
with the client after every iteration to ensure stories and projects are at expectations. If not, this could mean more work
but correct results.

Role of the customer/client in the process

User Stories - all parts, description, creation
	Title, description, estimation, priority

	User stories will be created using a blue sky-session or single-person brainstorming. Then decided by planning poker.
	Estimates and the Estimation Process, including planning poker

Iteration and deadline planning
	Setting estimations for user stories requires customer PRIORITIES
	Using those estimations along with priority, you can develope iterations based on x-amount of days
	Set a velocity to accomodate for real-world software engineering
Utopian vs. Real-World days
	Utopia - I can get this done in 3 days
	Real-world days - plan for off-days

Velocity - description, standard rate, what does it mean if velocity is higher or lower
	Velocity is the ration of how many ACTUAL work days you can get done with a set(or one) developers. 0.7
	is the normal rate. Higher velocity means we get more shit done, lower velocity means were planning for 
	low work output.

Big Board - basics of what it shows and how it is used
	User stories on left hand side.
	Progress is middle section -> includes task complete spot
	Burndown, Next Iteration and Completed User Stories on right hand side.
Good-enough design, SRP, DRY
	Good Enough Design:
		just good enough to get the job to meet the customer's needs and easy enough that the developers 
		can develop code on time
	SRP:
	Single responsibility Principle - every object in your system should have a single responsibility and all 
									  that object services  should be focused on carrying out that responsibility
	
	DRY:
	Don’t repeat yourself - Avoid duplicate code by abstracting or separating out things that are common and 
							placing those things in a single location
Version control - jobs that it does, commit messages, tags, branches, trunks.

	Version Control - jobs that it does - keeps track of file changes and helps coordinate different developers working 
					  on different parts of your system at the same time
	tag -a way to keep track of revision number in a version. Its a snapshot of your code at a certain time
	branches - The place where you are working on code that is not in the main development tree of the code
	trunks - the latest code by default and has all the latest features
	
Role and importance of build artifacts (code, configuration, tools, etc)
		What is produced as the project continues.
		
		Purposes:
			Demonstrates that a process was followed
			Pass knowledge on from one group of people to another
			Assist in building customer trust
			-Deliverables--things you can show
			Provide history for comparisom
			
Types of Testing: black box, white box, grey-box, what they include and who performs them
		See paper
Unit testing, system testing, testing vs development
	Unit Testing - focus on testing small pieces of code at one time, isolates components from one another to
				   minimize dependencies
	System testing - treat the system like a black box, focusing on functionality for the customer
	
Test-Driven Development (TDD) - basic process, advantages
	Write the tests before any code and letting the test dive your code development. You want your test to fail when you first write 
	Then write the code to pass your test.   Write the simplest code to pass your test. The advantage is that you have to focus on functionality 
	right away.
	
